This exercise asks you to take the components used
to rate the various projects' feasibility,
potential impact, and likelihood of value capture,
and represent them using the data science opportunity matrix.
I take these three components for each project and
represent them using the data science opportunity matrix.
These follow from my assessments for each project
that were completed as part of the previous exercise.
It's quite possible yours may differ, which is just fine.
As you can see, Project 1,
Customer Loyalty Program projects high impact.
But because of the extensive data required,
as well as the need to build a system of loyalty offered delivery as part of the project,
it's only medium in feasibility because this is the business' first foray in
the loyalty programs and
many different parts of the business must align in order to execute.
The likelihood of initially capturing value is not high.
Project 2, Customer Loyalty Assessment is much higher in
feasibility as the departmental edges of the project are much more narrow.
It only projects medium impact, however,
as action on the information gained is not clearly defined.
For this reason as well,
the project does not have high likelihood of value delivery.
Project 3, Assessing Customer Attitudes has highest feasibility of the set,
as it requires no new data,
relying on extant data from social media sites only.
Moreover, methods for scraping such data are well established,
which contributes to the high likelihood of capturing value.
The impact of this project is projected to be among the lowest of the group however,
as there's no clear value-driven use
identified for the information generated from the project.
Project 4, Procurement Optimization requires little new data,
so therefore is medium to high in feasibility.
Raw material procurement is a critical component of the business' operations.
So optimizing procurement should bring medium to high impact.
Material pricing is driven by market factors out of the business' control,
however, so there is substantial uncertainty around value capture.
Project 5, Supply Chain Optimization also requires little new data,
so therefore has medium feasibility.
Purchasing an inventory are cost heavy operations.
Centralizing and optimizing these functions should bring high impact.
The project's success is incumbent on
operational changes in not only procurement and inventory, but also delivery.
So the project has only medium certainty of delivering on the value expected of it.
Project 6, Demand Forecasting,
relies primarily on established data streams,
so it has medium to high feasibility.
Being able to anticipate demand swings as scheduled production and manage inventory
accordingly are important levers to
the business that should bring medium to high business impact.
Demand forecasting methods are well established,
so this project should be among the most likely to deliver on its expected value.
The course exercises and capstone projects will
direct you to craft an opportunity matrix of your own.
You may want to take a bit of time now to study
the opportunity matrix and how the feasibility,
potential impact, and likelihood of value capture of
each project drives how that project is represented on the matrix.